# Authorify - writing style transfer engine

In image processing techniques style transfer is a known and, in some sense, solved problem. A lot of tools allow one to make his photo look like it was done by Van Gogh and is not just a selfie. This fun tools are used widely nowadays. At the same time the style transfer of the text is in the darker side of the world. The recent paper from Juncen Li at all (https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/li2018transfer.pdf) states 34% accuracy in sentiment transfer. 
This brings us to the following idea:
Can we have a smart net which provided any text snippet (sentence, paragraph, etc...) will apply a famous authors style to it.
For example one would like to apply Shekspire style to his words, another one will prefer 50Cents style.
To solve this problem, first of all we needed to understand is it possible at all. More specificlly are 2 text snippets identifyable from atuhors perspective. One can argue that the answer is "yes" and there is nothing to understand. But suppose we are looking into 2 texts one of which was written by Tolstoy, the other one by Dostoevskiy. For sure if a human reads whole writing more or less familiar reader will identify the author. But is it possiible to do from short text snippets like sentence or paragraph. Are authors identifiable by only short snippets. To make sure that it can be done a simple test was done.
Facebooks fasText was used to classify text snippets by authors. 3 authors was selected - Dostoevskiy with his "Idiot", Tolstoy with his "War and peace", and 50Cent with few of his songs. All the sentences were separated and marked with fastext style labels (__label__). Each paragraph also was labed with similar label (we assume that the size of sentances and paragraphs a particular author uses usually matters). Classifier was trained on this data and it show 83% accuracy. This made us more confident that each autor is identifiable by small text snippets. For sure one can argue that because there are a lot of sentences there names of writing persons are used, city, country names are used, etc. this increased the accuracy of classifier, and the argument is right. But this was more like qualitive anlisys and not quantitive and having 60% accuracy would saticfy our needs too.

The next step is to use algorithm for style transfer. Here the plans are the following:
As in case of image style reduction, we assume that the text style can also be seen in corellations in different layers outputs of the NN. This said, the loss function must consider the corellations of this outputs with those obtained from the target text and the particular authors text. 
Here is the description of the current state of the project:
Mukil Kesavan in his work here: https://github.com/mukilk7/word-rnn described a word rnn similar to Karpathys char-rnn.
Trained on the proper authors text this will allow to generate a text which is similar to the style in which the author writes. More specifically it will consider word statistics common for the author.
This is not enough for transferring the style of the author to the text content of the user. For this multiple things are done:
First of all the text is parsed with spacy to get the parts of speach. Then the generator is fed with the user content. If the sequential word in the user text is a noun or pronoun it considered as a start of input for the RNN and it generates a word which will follow in the return text. The expectation here is that the way author uses adjectives will create a text which is close to author's style.
The loss function is modified to consider not only the output but also intermediate states.
